Human coronaviruses (HCoVs) have long been considered inconsequential pathogens, causing the “common
cold” in otherwise healthy people. However, in the 21st century, 2 highly pathogenic HCoVs—severe acute
respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV) and Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus
(MERS-CoV)—emerged from animal reservoirs to cause global epidemics with alarming morbidity and mortality.
In December 2019, yet another pathogenic HCoV, 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV), was recognized in Wuhan,
China, and has caused serious illness and death. The ultimate scope and effect of this outbreak is unclear
at present as the situation is rapidly evolving.

Coronaviruses are large, enveloped, positive-strand RNA viruses that can be divided into 4 genera: alpha,
beta, delta, and gamma, of which alpha and beta CoVs are known to infect humans.1 Four HCoVs (HCoV 229E,
 NL63, OC43, and HKU1) are endemic globally and account for 10% to 30% of upper respiratory tract
 infections in adults. Coronaviruses are ecologically diverse with the greatest variety seen in bats,
 suggesting that they are the reservoirs for many of these viruses.2 Peridomestic mammals may serve as
 intermediate hosts, facilitating recombination and mutation events with expansion of genetic diversity.
 The surface spike (S) glycoprotein is critical for binding of host cell receptors and is believed to
 represent a key determinant of host range restriction.1

Until recently, HCoVs received relatively little attention due to their mild phenotypes in humans.
This changed in 2002, when cases of severe atypical pneumonia were described in Guangdong Province,
China, causing worldwide concern as disease spread via international travel to more than 2 dozen
countries.2 The new disease became known as severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS), and a beta-HCoV,
named SARS-CoV, was identified as the causative agent. Because early cases shared a history of
human-animal contact at live game markets, zoonotic transmission of the virus was strongly suspected.
3 Palm civets and raccoon dogs were initially thought to be the animal reservoir(s); however, as more
 viral sequence data became available, consensus emerged that bats were the natural hosts.

Common symptoms of SARS included fever, cough, dyspnea, and occasionally watery diarrhea.2 Of infected
patients, 20% to 30% required mechanical ventilation and 10% died, with higher fatality rates in older
patients and those with medical comorbidities. Human-to-human transmission was documented, mostly in
 health care settings. This nosocomial spread may be explained by basic virology: the predominant human
 receptor for the SARS S glycoprotein, human angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2), is found primarily
 in the lower respiratory tract, rather than in the upper airway. Receptor distribution may account for
 both the dearth of upper respiratory tract symptoms and the finding that peak viral shedding occurred
 late (≈10 days) in illness when individuals were already hospitalized. SARS care often necessitated
 aerosol-generating procedures such as intubation, which also may have contributed to the prominent nosocomial spread.

Several important transmission events did occur in the community, such as the well-characterized
mini-outbreak in the Hotel Metropole in Hong Kong from where infected patrons traveled and spread
SARS internationally. Another outbreak occurred at the Amoy Gardens housing complex where more
than 300 residents were infected, providing evidence that airborne transmission of SARS-CoV can
sometimes occur.4 Nearly 20 years later, the factors associated with transmission of SARS-CoV,
ranging from self-limited animal-to-human transmission to human superspreader events, remain poorly understood.

Ultimately, classic public health measures brought the SARS pandemic to an end, but not before
8098 individuals were infected and 774 died.2 The pandemic cost the global economy an estimated
$30 billion to $100 billion.1 SARS-CoV demonstrated that animal CoVs could jump the species
barrier, thereby expanding perception of pandemic threats.

In 2012, another highly pathogenic beta-CoV made the species jump when Middle East respiratory
syndrome (MERS) was recognized and MERS-CoV was identified in the sputum of a Saudi man who died
from respiratory failure.3 Unlike SARS-CoV, which rapidly spread across the globe and was contained
and eliminated in relatively short order, MERS has smoldered, characterized by sporadic zoonotic
transmission and limited chains of human spread. MERS-CoV has not yet sustained community spread;
instead, it has caused explosive nosocomial transmission events, in some cases linked to a single
superspreader, which are devastating for health care systems. According to the World Health Organization (WHO),
as of November 2019, MERS-CoV has caused a total of 2494 cases and 858 deaths, the majority in Saudi Arabia.
The natural reservoir of MERS-CoV is presumed to be bats, yet human transmission events have
primarily been attributed to an intermediate host, the dromedary camel.

MERS shares many clinical features with SARS such as severe atypical pneumonia, yet key differences are evident.
Patients with MERS have prominent gastrointestinal symptoms and often acute kidney failure, likely explained by
the binding of the MERS-CoV S glycoprotein to dipeptidyl peptidase 4 (DPP4), which is present in the lower
airway as well as the gastrointestinal tract and kidney.3 MERS necessitates mechanical ventilation in 50% to 89%
 of patients and has a case fatality rate of 36%.2

While MERS has not caused the international panic seen with SARS, the emergence of this second,
 highly pathogenic zoonotic HCoV illustrates the threat posed by this viral family. In 2017,
 the WHO placed SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV on its Priority Pathogen list, hoping to galvanize research
 and the development of countermeasures against CoVs.

The action of the WHO proved prescient. On December 31, 2019, Chinese authorities reported a
cluster of pneumonia cases in Wuhan, China, most of which included patients who reported exposure
to a large seafood market selling many species of live animals. Emergence of another pathogenic
 zoonotic HCoV was suspected, and by January 10, 2020, researchers from the Shanghai Public
 Health Clinical Center & School of Public Health and their collaborators released a full genomic
 sequence of 2019-nCoV to public databases, exemplifying prompt data sharing in outbreak response.
 Preliminary analyses indicate that 2019-nCoV has some amino acid homology to SARS-CoV and may be
 able to use ACE2 as a receptor. This has important implications for predicting pandemic potential
  moving forward. The situation with 2019-nCoV is evolving rapidly, with the case count currently
   growing into the hundreds. Human-to-human transmission of 2019-nCoV occurs, as evidenced by the
   infection of 15 health care practitioners in a Wuhan hospital. The extent, if any, to which such
   transmission might lead to a sustained epidemic remains an open and critical question. So far, it
   appears that the fatality rate of 2019-nCoV is lower than that of SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV; however,
   the ultimate scope and effects of the outbreak remain to be seen.

Drawing on experience from prior zoonotic CoV outbreaks, public health authorities have initiated
 preparedness and response activities. Wuhan leaders closed and disinfected the first identified market.
 The United States and several other countries have initiated entry screening of passengers from Wuhan
  at major ports of entry. Health practitioners in other Chinese cities, Thailand, Japan, and South Korea
  promptly identified travel-related cases, isolating individuals for further care. The first travel-related
  case in the United States occurred on January 21 in a young Chinese man who had visited Wuhan.

Additionally, biomedical researchers are initiating countermeasure development for 2019-nCoV using
SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV as prototypes. For example, platform diagnostic modalities are being rapidly
adapted to include 2019-nCoV, allowing early recognition and isolation of cases. Broad-spectrum antivirals,
such as remdesivir, an RNA polymerase inhibitor, as well as lopinavir/ritonavir and interferon beta have
shown promise against MERS-CoV in animal models and are being assessed for activity against 2019-nCoV.5 Vaccines,
which have adapted approaches used for SARS-CoV or MERS-CoV, are also being pursued. For example, scientists at
the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases Vaccine Research Center have used nucleic acid vaccine
platform approaches.6 During SARS, researchers moved from obtaining the genomic sequence of SARS-CoV to a phase 1
clinical trial of a DNA vaccine in 20 months and have since compressed that timeline to 3.25 months for other viral
diseases. For 2019-nCoV, they hope to move even faster, using messenger RNA (mRNA) vaccine technology.
Other researchers are similarly poised to construct viral vectors and subunit vaccines.

While the trajectory of this outbreak is impossible to predict, effective response requires prompt action
from the standpoint of classic public health strategies to the timely development and implementation of
effective countermeasures. The emergence of yet another outbreak of human disease caused by a pathogen from
a viral family formerly thought to be relatively benign underscores the perpetual challenge of
emerging infectious diseases and the importance of sustained preparedness.

Corresponding Author: Anthony S. Fauci, MD, Laboratory of Immunoregulation, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, 31 Center Dr, MSC 2520, Bldg 31, Room 7A-03, Bethesda, MD 20892-2520 (afauci@niaid.nih.gov).

Published Online: January 23, 2020. doi:10.1001/jama.2020.0757

Conflict of Interest Disclosures: None reported.

References
1.
de Wilde  AH, Snijder  EJ, Kikkert  M, van Hemert  MJ.  Host factors in coronavirus replication.  Curr Top Microbiol Immunol. 2018;419:1-42. doi:10.1007/82_2017_25PubMedGoogle Scholar
2.
de Wit  E, van Doremalen  N, Falzarano  D, Munster  VJ.  SARS and MERS: recent insights into emerging coronaviruses.  Nat Rev Microbiol. 2016;14(8):523-534. doi:10.1038/nrmicro.2016.81PubMedGoogle ScholarCrossref
3.
Song  Z, Xu  Y, Bao  L,  et al.  From SARS to MERS, thrusting coronaviruses into the spotlight.  Viruses. 2019;11(1):11. doi:10.3390/v11010059PubMedGoogle ScholarCrossref
4.
Yu  IT, Li  Y, Wong  TW,  et al.  Evidence of airborne transmission of the severe acute respiratory syndrome virus.  N Engl J Med. 2004;350(17):1731-1739. doi:10.1056/NEJMoa032867PubMedGoogle ScholarCrossref
5.
Sheahan  TP, Sims  AC, Leist  SR,  et al.  Comparative therapeutic efficacy of remdesivir and combination lopinavir, ritonavir, and interferon beta against MERS-CoV.  Nat Commun. 2020;11(1):222. doi:10.1038/s41467-019-13940-6PubMedGoogle ScholarCrossref
6.
Graham  BS, Mascola  JR, Fauci  AS.  Novel vaccine technologies: essential components of an adequate response to emerging viral diseases.  JAMA. 2018;319(14):1431-1432. doi:10.1001/jama.2018.0345
ArticlePubMedGoogle ScholarCrossref
Comme